Among the many things
that Jesus Christ revealed to his disciples
was this very old and fundamental truth:
“There is more happiness in giving
than there is in receiving.”
Jesus learned this truth
from his Father, Jehovah God,
who is the greatest example of a happy Giver.
At Genesis 1:27,
we see clear evidence
of Jehovah’s generosity.
Genesis 1:27 says:
“And God went on to create
the man in his image,
“in God’s image he created him;
male and female he created them.”
This verse describes humans
as a unique creation,
different in many ways
from all other forms of life on earth.
We are made in Jehovah’s image.
Jehovah God designed us
to reflect his personality.
We have within us
the capability of cultivating
the divine quality of generosity
and experiencing the happiness
that comes from giving.
We really do get pleasure
out of giving to family, friends,
even to people we don’t know.
It makes us feel good to give to others.
However,
the most important giving that we can do
and the key to happiness in life
is to give our Creator what he deserves.
Revelation 4:11
sets forth clearly the things
that Jehovah God deserves,
and it shows the reason why
we should give such things to God.
Read with me Revelation 4:11.
It says:
“You are worthy, Jehovah our God,
“to receive the glory
and the honor and the power,
“because you created all things,
“and because of your will
they came into existence
and were created.”
We exist because Jehovah created us.
That fact makes him worthy
to receive from us glory,
honor, and power.
That’s what you candidates for baptism
have made the decision to do,
to give Jehovah God
glory and honor and power.
You do this by praising his name,
by obeying him,
and by using your life
—your power, energy,
and your whole strength—
to do his will.
By getting baptized
in symbol of your dedication to God,
you are declaring publicly
that you have given yourself to Jehovah.
You have made a gift to God
of your heart, mind, and strength
—your very being.
And you have made this decision
because you have come to know Jehovah
and you love him.
We are happy
to acknowledge your decision
to give yourselves to God,
and we wholeheartedly welcome
you baptism candidates.
Giving of yourself in baptism
will lead to great happiness
because it opens up opportunities
to give of yourself in ways that truly count.
Your baptism brings you
into a special relationship with Jehovah.
It allows you
to participate in doing his will
with his approval
because you are obeying him.
You become one of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
qualified to present the evidence
that Jehovah
is the only “living and true God”!
Your dedication and baptism
opens the door for you
to become a part
of the worldwide brotherhood,
a true modern-day miracle.
There is nothing anywhere on this planet
that can compare to the visible part
of Jehovah’s organization,
made up of people from all nations,
tribes, languages, and backgrounds
—people who really do love God
and love one another.
You have more opportunities now
than ever before to give
and receive encouragement.
For example,
think of the encouragement
you get from the brotherhood,
in fulfillment of Jesus’ promise
at Mark 10:29, 30.
In those two verses,
Jesus assured his disciples
that they would “get 100 times more”
of what they left behind in this old world,
“and in the coming system of things,”
he said that they
would have “everlasting life.”
It must have given Jesus
pleasure to share
that wonderful and encouraging promise
with his disciples,
and it most certainly made
the disciples happy.
That’s how it is, isn’t it?
Giving and making other people happy
makes us happy.
The happiness you can experience
by helping others is unlimited
because Jehovah focuses
on your motive for giving
—why you give.
Jehovah never takes
for granted what you do,
and he will always reward you for it.
Read with me Hebrews 6:10,
and take note of the fact
that Jehovah God
remembers why you give
and what you do
to advance Kingdom interests
—Hebrews 6:10.
It reads:
“For God is not unrighteous
so as to forget your work
“and the love you showed
for his name by ministering
and continuing to minister
to the holy ones.”
As the scripture shows,
Jehovah won’t forget what you do
because you are motivated
by love for his name.
Let’s now consider more closely two areas
in which baptism broadens
your opportunities to give:
first, making disciples,
and second, helping your brothers
and sisters in the faith.
The foremost way
for you and for me to give
is by sharing
the good news of the Kingdom
and making disciples.
Jesus’ exhortation to make disciples
is found at Matthew 28:19, 20.
The commission to make disciples
was given not only
to the first-century Christians
but to all of Jesus’ disciples,
right down to the time of the end
in which we are living.
Think for a moment
about what is involved in disciple-making.
It’s the result of preaching and teaching.
And you know that it takes time
to prepare for and take part in the ministry.
The sample presentations
we see in the midweek meetings
are not complicated,
and it’s good that they
don’t change too often.
But to have a presentation well in mind
and be prepared for the field service,
you may need to give up some time
you formerly spent on yourself.
It takes time to learn a presentation
and to become familiar with it.
But taking the time is worth it.
It’s a good feeling
to be prepared and ready to preach
—to have something to say and a video
to show whenever you have the opportunity.
There are sheep out there,
but we don’t know where they are,
and so we try to call on everyone.
People need to hear about the Kingdom,
whether they accept the message or not.
So don’t become discouraged
if you don’t have
the kind of results you anticipated.
Just keep on preaching,
and you will be blessed.
When you preach,
you are engaging
in the most important work
being done today
—announcing God’s Kingdom—
the fulfillment of Matthew 24:14:
“And this good news of the Kingdom
“will be preached in all the inhabited earth
“for a witness to all the nations,
and then the end will come.”
You are successful
in obeying Jesus’ words
to preach the Kingdom message
even when people reject the good news.
You can’t control how people respond,
but you do not let up in preaching
the lifesaving message of truth.
Honest hearts respond
to the Kingdom message.
Be courageous and trust in Jehovah
and his powerful spirit to help you.
Your work will have
everlasting results for you personally
and for those who listen to you
and embrace the truth.
The apostle Paul tells us
at 1 Corinthians 3:9
that by sharing in the ministry,
you become Jehovah’s fellow worker.
Can you imagine?
Jehovah invites imperfect humans
to cooperate with him,
the almighty Creator,
in a special work that he
considers highly important.
Your faith and hope
become stronger as you give
by sharing with others
what you know about Jehovah
and the Kingdom.
Keep in mind
the simple and enriching truth stated
at Proverbs 11:24;
it applies both materially and spiritually.
That’s Proverbs 11:24,
and it reads:
“One gives generously
“and ends up with more;
“another withholds what should be given,
but he comes to poverty.”
No matter how much
you give to Jehovah,
you will always get back
more than you give.
You can’t outgive Jehovah!
Isn’t that wonderful?
Seize every opportunity
to give of yourself in the ministry,
and your giving
will continue to bring you happiness.
The more involved you are,
the happier you will be.
Engage in the ministry
every week if at all possible.
Also, think seriously about reaching out
to serve as an auxiliary pioneer
or a regular pioneer.
Talk to pioneers about the joy
they get from the ministry.
It’s contagious!
Many doors to wonderful experiences
and blessings
open to those who reach out
to expand their ministry.
Your regular participation
in the preaching work
allows you the opportunity
to develop skill in using the Bible,
starting conversations,
and in using the Teaching Toolbox.
All of us enjoy doing
the things that we do well;
when you’re good at something,
usually you like doing it.
Work at improving
the quality of your ministry.
As you do, your joy will increase.
One way joy increases
is by participating in various forms
of the ministry
—public witnessing,
house to house, informal,
telephone witnessing, and letter writing.
Also, you can develop
your skills in using the Bible,
your tablet, or cell phone
to bring up scriptures or videos.
Take the time to practice
starting conversations
and using the Teaching Toolbox.
It does take practice
to find exactly what you’re looking for
and then to use it to give a witness.
Approaching strangers
and engaging them
in conversation about the Bible
can be a challenge.
Why?
One reason is because some of us
are more reserved than others.
We are pleased to introduce
Sister Loraini Jackson.
Sister Jackson has been serving
for many years in special full-time service
and visiting a variety of lands
with her husband, Geoffrey.
Sister Jackson,
at first,
when you learned the truth
in Fiji as a young person,
how did you feel
about sharing in the ministry?
Brother Malenfant,
I am shy and reserved by nature.
And I remember
that when I first learned
that Jehovah wants us
to preach his good news,
I was excited,
but even more so, I was terrified.
I understood that preaching
would mean approaching strangers
and trying to have
conversations with them,
often when they least expected it.
And, really,
all I wanted to do is just be quiet
and be on my own.
I think there are many brothers
and sisters who feel the same way.
What helped you to share
in the ministry more fully?
I think the main thing
that has helped me
is relying on Jehovah’s help
through prayer.
Like many others, I talk to Jehovah
constantly about my struggles
—the struggle to say the right thing,
the struggle to not show fear
in my manner or my voice,
the struggle to remember
the right scriptures to use
and to use them well
and, of course, if someone is rude,
to try to remain calm and kind.
Your words are appreciated.
Tell us, what are some of the things
that bring you joy in the ministry?
The things that bring me joy
are the very things
I could not have done
without Jehovah’s help
—things like conversing freely
with people (strangers)
about Jehovah and the Bible
and then having the opportunity
to see people’s eyes light up
when they read or understand
a Bible verse for the first time
(I think those are really precious)
and, of course, helping a Bible student
work through a problem
and then also trying
to become their friend.
I think things like these really show
Jehovah’s power and support.
And all I can do is thank him for them.
That’s very encouraging for all of us,
Sister Jackson.
My final question is,
How do you feel about participating
in various aspects of the ministry?
I know I still lack so much,
but I’m so grateful
for the opportunities I’ve been given
to participate
in various aspects of the ministry
because they’ve allowed me
to help others start their own journeys
to becoming Jehovah’s friend,
and they’ve also given me an opportunity
to work with Jehovah
and really rely on him.
I feel the ministry helps one,
especially if one is shy,
to focus on others,
on Jehovah, on Jesus,
on people and their needs
and not so much on one’s own limitations.
It’s true,
I’m still very reserved and shy.
And as those close to me know,
some days are good,
and other days I feel
like hiding somewhere
and not saying much.
However, the ministry
has helped me manage my shyness
and has helped train me
to accept other assignments of service.
I am convinced that anyone,
whether timid or otherwise,
can rejoice in the ministry,
provided that they
rely constantly on Jehovah
and focus on him.
Thank you very much, Sister Jackson,
for such encouraging expressions of faith.
Jehovah is there to help us
if we trust in him
and put forth a sincere effort
to give of ourselves
in the preaching activity.
The second way to give is by helping
“those related to us in the faith.”
Paul wrote about this at Galatians 6:10.
It reads:
“So, then,
as long as we have the opportunity,
“let us work what is good toward all,
but especially toward those
related to us in the faith.”
Yes, you are part of a beautiful family.
Willingly use your time, energy,
and resources to assist
your fellow believers
and “work what is good toward [them].”
Think about your brothers
in the congregation
and identify those whom you
can assist in practical ways.
Ask yourself,
‘Is there someone in the congregation
‘that I could help by giving
that person a ride to a meeting
or perhaps running
an errand for him or for her?’
Perhaps visit the elderly
and offer to assist them in practical ways.
We all want to show personal interest
in our brothers and sisters
and be a source
of encouragement to them.
Also, we want to support
relief efforts for needy Christians.
Natural disasters occur,
and there is sickness as well as poverty,
among many other things.
Doesn’t it thrill you
when you read how
the brothers respond generously
to assist fellow believers
who are in need?
At 2 Corinthians 8:1-4,
Paul expresses deep appreciation
for the brothers in Macedonia,
and notice why Paul felt that way
—2 Corinthians 8:1-4:
“Now we want you to know, brothers,
“about the undeserved kindness of God
“that has been granted
to the congregations of Macedonia.
“During a great test under affliction,
“their abundance of joy
and their deep poverty
“made the riches
of their generosity abound.
“For it was according to their means,
“yes, I testify,
it was even beyond their means,
“while they on their own initiative
“kept earnestly begging us
for the privilege of kindly giving,
to have a share
in the relief ministry for the holy ones.”
The brothers in Macedonia
took the initiative
to provide loving help
to their spiritual family
in spite of their own poverty.
What a fine example for us to be generous
and ready to assist
our spiritual brothers and sisters
whatever way we can!
Giving to others
can be done in different ways.
With that thought in mind,
we are happy to interview
Sister Penny Pierce.
Sister Pierce,
you have raised a family;
you’ve spent decades
in special full-time service
and traveled to a variety of lands
with your husband, Guy,
who was a member of the Governing Body.
And, like Dorcas,
you have a reputation
for “[abounding] in good deeds
and gifts of mercy.”
Tell us, Sister Pierce,
what motivates you to assist others?
Well, the answer is found
at 1 Chronicles 29:14, where it says:
“For everything is from you,
and we have given to you
what comes from your own hand.”
So anything that I may give
actually comes from Jehovah.
Recently, with the coronavirus,
we’ve seen an outpouring
of Jehovah’s people giving.
We all have given time and energy,
emotions, a listening ear.
And video chatting
—everyone (young and old)
gave love, faith, and trust.
And it didn’t cost anything.
I thought,
‘Jehovah is doing wonderful things
in the middle of a tragic pandemic.’
What you said
is truly practical and very helpful.
Sister Pierce,
please tell us the experience you had
when you hosted brothers and sisters
during a special preaching campaign.
Well, at times, we have
the opportunity to help materially too.
Some years ago,
when the family was home,
we had 30 people
coming to stay at our home.
They were going to preach to refugees.
I had one bathroom,
and I had 25 dollars,
which I spent completely on food.
Now I had zero.
We never told anyone
that we didn’t have money.
I knew they didn’t have money too.
We had a wonderful time!
When the friends left Sunday night,
I had more food than when they came.
That food lasted us for ten days,
to the end of the month.
But I worried about the effect
on my teenage sons.
So I asked one how he felt.
He said,
“I know you have a jar of flour and oil.”
I didn’t worry anymore.
Jehovah certainly blessed you.
Tell us how you view
what you did to host the friends
that came to preach in your area.
Many of these acts
of kindness that I did
were very small to me,
but often I didn’t know the big impact
it would have on their lives.
That’s when you realize
you’ve had the privilege
of working with holy spirit.
It’s nothing I did;
it’s what Jehovah did.
That’s beautiful, Sister Pierce.
Now, we would like to hear
a final expression from you
of the joy that you
receive personally from giving.
One never gives to Jehovah
without receiving back a hundred fold.
It may not come from the same source,
but it will come.
Jehovah promises at Acts 20:35:
“There is more happiness in giving
than there is in receiving.”
I have to admit,
Jehovah spoils me with blessings.
Thank you very much,
Sister Pierce.
Jehovah has certainly blessed you
for your generosity
and your warm Christian hospitality.
Helping one another
strengthens the bonds of the brotherhood.
And there is nothing like knowing
that your brothers really do love you.
That’s how the brothers
in Jerusalem felt when they were in need
and received loving assistance
from the brothers in Corinth.
Please turn to 2 Corinthians 9:11-14.
This is where the apostle Paul describes
the reaction
of the needy brothers in Jerusalem
to the generosity
of the brothers in Corinth.
That’s 2 Corinthians 9:11-14.
And this is what Paul wrote:
“In everything you are being enriched
“for every sort of generosity,
“which produces through us
an expression of thanks to God;
“because the ministry
of this public service
“is not only to provide well
for the needs of the holy ones
“but also to be rich
in many expressions of thanks to God.
“Through the proof
that this relief ministry gives,
“they [that is, the holy ones
in Jerusalem] glorify God
“because you are submissive
to the good news about the Christ,
“as you publicly declared,
“and because you are generous
in your contribution to them and to all.
“And with supplication for you,
“they express affection for you
“because of the surpassing
undeserved kindness of God
upon you.”
The brothers in Jerusalem
glorified Jehovah,
not just because they received
some material provisions,
but rather, it was
because the brothers in Corinth,
who for the most part
were new in the Christian faith,
were motivated by love
to send material help.
Yes, the truth was in their hearts
and made them cheerful givers
to their brothers in Jerusalem.
So they all were happy
and felt Jehovah’s love and approval.
You baptism candidates will rejoice
as you sense and are convinced
that Jehovah is pleased with what you do.
Proverbs 19:17 tells us
how Jehovah views
unselfish giving to those in need.
It says:
“The one showing favor
to the lowly
“is lending to Jehovah,
and He will repay him for what he does.”
Can you imagine “lending to Jehovah”?
When we give spiritual or material help
to our brothers in need,
Jehovah sees and views it
as a loan to him.
Remember, you can’t outgive Jehovah.
By giving to others and refreshing them,
the giver, in turn, will benefit himself.
As Proverbs 11:25 says:
“The generous person will prosper,
and whoever refreshes others
will himself be refreshed.”
Today you feel happy
because you are giving
of yourself to Jehovah
to serve him forever.
You make us happy
by making that decision.
We exhort you to maintain your happiness
by doing what you
can reasonably do to help others
by giving both in the ministry
and in the congregation.
Jehovah will give back to you
in more ways than you can imagine.
May the way in which you live
as dedicated servants of Jehovah
reflect forever the fundamental truth
revealed by Jesus:
“There is  more happiness in giving
than there is in receiving.”